Exercise Set 1: Commands & Variables

1. Write a program that prints the following output, including punctuation, to the console:
1 Hello Python !
2 This is my first p r o g r a m m i n g code
3 I am looking forward to write more ...

2. Write a program that calculates the number of seconds in 5 weeks and prints that to the user in the
following format:
1 The number of seconds in 5 weeks is 3024000
Make sure to perform all calculations in Python, i.e., start from a base unit of 60 seconds per minute
and then multiply by the number of weeks, number of days per week, and number of hours per day to
get to the total number of seconds.

3. Write a program that asks for the user’s amount of savings at the start of the year and then outputs
their expected savings at the end of the year. Assume a (yearly) interest rate of 2.55%. A sample of
your program output, where the user enters a saving of 10000, should look as follows:
1 What are your current savings ? 10000
2 Your expected savings at the end of the year : 10255

4. Write a program that computes the sum of three numbers provided by the user. The program should
print the sum of the first two numbers and print the total sum after asking for the third number. A
sample of the output of your program, in case the user inputs the numbers -16, 8, and 27, should look
as follows:
1 What is the first number ? -16
2 What is the second number ? 8
3 The sum so far is -8
4 What is the third number ? 27
5 The total sum is 19

5. EDHEC email addresses of sta! members take the format “firstName.secondName@edhec.edu”, where
“firstName” and “secondName” are the first and second name of the sta! member. Write a program that
asks a user for his first and last name and outputs the user’s email address. You can choose how the
output looks like, but make sure to use an f-string for outputting the final email address within your
print command.
Hint: f-strings work in a similar way for strings as for numbers, but no conversion is needed.

6. The Economic Order Quantity (EOQ) is the order quantitiy in inventory management that minimizes
the sum of holding and ordering costs. The optimal order quantity Q→ is determined as
Q→
=
2ωK
h ,
where ω is the yearly demand for the product, K is the fixed ordering cost paid per order, and h is the
annual holding cost per unit of product.
Write a program that asks the user for the values of ω, K, and h, and prints the optimal order quantity
to the console.

7. (a) Write a program that handles two boolean values, which are defined through the variables first_value
and second_value at the start of your code. The program should print if both values are True or not.
I.e., if both variables contain the True value, the program should print:
1 Both values are true : True
Else, the program should print:
1 Both values are true : False
(b) Extend the above developed program, now assuming that there are three boolean values (the last
given to a third_value variable) and that the program should test if all three values are True. Adjust
the output to the console in an appropriate way.