Exercise Set 2: Conditional Statements & Simple Loops
Conditional Statements

1. Write a program to check if a given car is speeding on an 80 kilometer per hour road. The program
should ask for the speed of the car and print “Car is speeding!” in case the car goes faster than the
speed limit.

2. Write a program that prints a warning message to the user in case the return on a stock was no better
than putting the same money into a savings account. The program should ask the user for the investment
they made in a particular stock at the start of the year and price increase of the stock over the year, and
compare this return against an interest rate of 2.3% if the user would have put the money on a savings
account.

3. Postcodes within the Nord department of France, which contains the city of Lille, have a postcode
starting with 59. Write a program that asks the postcode from the user and outputs if the post-
code lies in the Nord region, i.e., is a five digit number starting with 59. In case it does, print the text
“The postcode is in the Nord department”. Otherwise, print the text “The postcode is not in the Nord department”.

4. (a) Write a program that can translate the English name for a day of the week to the corresponding
Latin name. The output of your program should look like the following in case the user enters
“Monday”:
1 Which day of the week do you want to tr a ns la t e ? Monday
2 The name in Latin is : Dies Lunae
Use no more than one conditional statement, which is allowed though to consist of (multiple) elif
blocks.
(b) Extend your program such that the user can either enter the weekday they want to translate in
English or French. Make sure that the program still consists of a single conditional statement and
use no more if, else if, and else blocks than you did before.

5. A home insurance company only accepts clients if they satisfy the following conditions:
• They have their house in mainland France,
• They have not made more than two claims in the last 10 years, and
• They are not registered as a bad payer within the corresponding national registry
Write a program that asks the user if they live in mainland France, for the number of claims they made,
and if they are registered in the registry of bad payers. Then print if they can get an insurance with
this company or not. Make sure to use a single conditional statement that only contains an if and else
block, i.e., no else if blocks.

6. A swimming pool in Roubaix has di!erent rates depending on the age of the visitor:
• All children under 12 go for free.
• Children from 13 up until 17 pay 3.50 if they live in Roubaix, and 4.50 otherwise.
• Adults pay 5.50 if they live in Roubaix, 6.50 if they live in the European Metropolis of Lille (MEL),
and 8.00 otherwise.
• Seniors (65+) generally pay 5.50, but get a reduced rate of 4.00 if they are member of the national
senior organization.
Write a program that prints the correct entry price for a visitor. Make sure to ask only the information
from the user that is needed to determine the rate for the specific age category, e.g., do not ask adults
if they are member of the senior organization.

7. Simple Loops
(a) Write a program that prints the first n (strictly) positive numbers, where the user specifies n. For
example, if the user asks for the first 4 numbers, your program output should look as follows:
1 How many numbers do you want to print ? 4
2 1
3 2
4 3
5 4
(b) Adjust your program such that the user can specify the start number k as well. For example, if
the user sets k = 10 and would like to see n = 4 numbers, your program should print the numbers
10, 11, 12, 13.

8. Write a program that asks for the profit a given company made over the last four years and prints the
sum of the profits. The output of your program should look as follows, where the numbers after the
question marks are sample input given by a user:
1 What is the current year ? 2025
2 What was the profit in 2024? 12500
3 What was the profit in 2023? 10000
4 What was the profit in 2022? 7500
5 What was the profit in 2021? -1000
6 Total profit over the last 4 years : 29000

9. The Fibonacci numbers follow the formula fn = fn→1 + fn→2 with f0 = 0 and f1 = 1. Write a program
that asks the user for the number n of Fibonacci numbers to print, and afterwards prints the Fibonacci
numbers f0, . . . , fn→1 line by line